README.md, before:

# About the project

### Description of the project

This is a clone of the video game [Flappy Bird](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flappy_Bird) built while following the [Clear Code tutorial part 1](https://youtu.be/UZg49z76cLw) and [Clear Code tutorial part 2](https://youtu.be/XRw1FUEsSv4). [Flappy Bird](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flappy_Bird)is a mobile game developed by Vietnamese video game artist and programmer Dong Nguyen (Vietnamese: Nguyễn Hà Đông), under his game development company .Gears. The game is a side-scroller where the player controls a bird, attempting to fly between columns of green pipes without hitting them

---

### Click here for the [demo](https://replit.com/@KgotsoKoete/Flappy-Bird-Pygame?v=1)

---

### Technology stack

1. Python 3.10.4
2. Pygame 2.1.2

---

### Install on Linux or Windows:

1. Download this codebase
2. Install Python 3.10.4 on your machine
3. Install Pygame 2.1.2

### 3: Run project

1. Run locally: Navigate to the project folder and run `python3 main.py` to start the game.
2. Run in an an in-browser IDE: Visit the [Replit](https://replit.com/@KgotsoKoete/Flappy-Bird-Pygame?v=1) and run in full screen mode for the best experience.

---

### Acknowledgements

Special thanks to [Clear Code](https://www.youtube.com/c/ClearCode) for a great tutorial. The tutorial was explained very well, brief and very impactful in showing the basics of Pygame.

The tutorial also has a link to the the [original image files](https://github.com/samuelcust/flappy-bird-assets) and the [original sound files](https://www.sounds-resource.com/mobile/flappybird/sound/5309/). The github repo for the actual tutorial can be found [here](https://github.com/clear-code-projects/FlappyBird_Python)
<br/>
<br/>

---

### License

The codebase is MIT licensed unless otherwise specified. Feel free to fork or download this code and use as specified in the license.

#

To be modified further by Kgotso Koete
<br/>
September 2022

Commit message:

build files to run on windows and linux

README.md, after:

# About the project

### Description of the project

This is a clone of the video game [Flappy Bird](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flappy_Bird) built while following the [Clear Code tutorial part 1](https://youtu.be/UZg49z76cLw) and [Clear Code tutorial part 2](https://youtu.be/XRw1FUEsSv4). [Flappy Bird](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flappy_Bird)is a mobile game developed by Vietnamese video game artist and programmer Dong Nguyen (Vietnamese: Nguyễn Hà Đông), under his game development company .Gears. The game is a side-scroller where the player controls a bird, attempting to fly between columns of green pipes without hitting them

---

### Click here for the [demo](https://replit.com/@KgotsoKoete/Flappy-Bird-Pygame?v=1)

---

### Technology stack

1. Python 3.10.4
2. Pygame 2.1.2

---

### Install the project on Linux or Windows:

1. Download this codebase
2. Install Python 3.10.4 on your machine
3. Install Pygame 2.1.2

### 3: Run project

1. Run locally: Navigate to the project folder and run `python3 flappy_bird_pygame.py` to start the game.
2. Run in an an in-browser IDE: Visit the [Replit](https://replit.com/@KgotsoKoete/Flappy-Bird-Pygame?v=1) and run in full screen mode for the best experience.

### Build project executable

Follow the instructions below to build an executable file for Windows and Ubuntu Linux

1. Install executable builder `pip install cx_freeze`
2. Run `python3 setup.py build` to build the Linux executable
3. Run `python setup.py bdist_msi` to build the Linux executable
4. To find the Linux executable, navigate to the folder `build/exe.linux-x86_64-3.10` and find the `flappy_bird_pygame` executable
5. To find the Windows executable, navigate to the folder `??` and find the `flappy_bird_pygame` executable

---

### Acknowledgements

Special thanks to [Clear Code](https://www.youtube.com/c/ClearCode) for a great tutorial. The tutorial was explained very well, brief and very impactful in showing the basics of Pygame.

The tutorial also has a link to the the [original image files](https://github.com/samuelcust/flappy-bird-assets) and the [original sound files](https://www.sounds-resource.com/mobile/flappybird/sound/5309/). The github repo for the actual tutorial can be found [here](https://github.com/clear-code-projects/FlappyBird_Python)
<br/>
<br/>

---

### License

The codebase is MIT licensed unless otherwise specified. Feel free to fork or download this code and use as specified in the license.

#

To be modified further by Kgotso Koete
<br/>
September 2022
